1. What is a list? explain the concept of slicing and indexing with proper exmaples.
2. Explain append, remove and insert function with example.
3. What is dictionary? Illustrate with an example the usage nested dictionary.
4. Write a pgm that accepts a sentence find the number of words, digits, uppercase and lowercase letters
5. Discuss the following operaters with suitable exmaples: **, //, in and not, replication and concatenation
6. With suitable exmaple explain, piper clip module and p print module in detail.
7. Create a function to print out an empty tic tac toe board
8. What is the difference between copy.copy() and copy.deepcopy() function applicable to a list or dictionary in python. give examples.
9. Explain the various string methods for the follwing operations with example: remove whitespace character from beginning and the end, remove whitespace characters and both sides of string, to right justify, left justify and centre a string
10. Discuss the follwing dictionary methods with exmaples: get, items, keys and values
11. How is tuple different from list? Which function is function used the convert list to a tuple.
12. Explain the methods of list datatype in python for the following operations: finding a value in list, sorting the values in a list, 
13. With example code. explain join and split string methods.
14. Develop a python program to accept sentence from user, and display the longest word of that sentence along with its length
15. How is dictionary different from the list. Assume a dictionary containing city and population as key and value respectivly. Write a pgm to traverse dictionary and display most populous city.
16. Explain the following string methods with exmaple: join, islower, strip, centre
17. If s='hello world', explain and write the output of following statements: s[1:5], s[:5], s[3:-1], s[:]
18. Write a pgm to check validity of password read by the users. following criteria should be used to check validity: should have one lower case letter, one digit, one uppercase letter, one special character($, #, @, !), 6 characters. Your pgm shpuld accept and check validity using above criteria and  print valid or invalid as the case. 
19. Write a pgm that accpets a sentence and build dictionary with Letters, Digits, Uppercase, Lowercase as key values and they count in the sentence as values
20. Write a pgm to generate fibonacci series upto the given limit by defining the fibonacci(n) function
21. What are the advantages of dictionary over the list.
22. Write a python pgm to accept usn and marks obtained, find maximum and minumum and students usn who have scored in the range: 100-85, 85-75, 75-60, and below 60
23. Demonstrate how dictionary items can be represented as list of tuples and how tuples can be used as keys in dictionaries. 